---
title: How free and open source software can help human to keep their sanity during a pandemic crisis?
image: 
layout: "post"
permalink: /talks/116
published: true
summary: C00kies and adulau were facing some interesting challenges during the pandemic crisis. Their soci…
lang: en
---
<< [back to schedule](/schedule/)

## How free and open source software can help human to keep their sanity during a pandemic crisis?
---


C00kies and adulau were facing some interesting challenges during the pandemic crisis. Their social life and especially hacking interaction were interrupted significantly. They decide to face the situation and, as convinced by a common artistic and hacker philosophy, free and open sources played a role. They decided to share their humble experience on the topic. The goal of the talk is to reinforce the open source community and improve the software/hardware stack to help our societies, human and bring some love to everyone.

---
### Speaker(s)


**Pauline Bourmeau (MISP Project), Alexandre Dulaunoy (MISP Project)**

### Bio
Pauline

Former teacher, trained linguist, 42 school alumni, I’m passionate about research activity on both computers and human sides. I moved towards security researcher as a threat analyst by day and reverser by night. Organizer of the defcon group of Paris, we host foreigners speakers, and do love our small hackers gatherings.

Alexandre

Normal bio:

I break stuff and I do stuff.

Bureaucratic bio:

Alexandre Dulaunoy encountered his first computer in the eighties, and he disassembled it to know how the thing works. While pursuing his logical path towards information security and free software, he worked as senior security network consultant at different places (e.g. Ubizen, now Cybertrust). He co-founded a startup called Conostix, which specialised in information security management. For the past 6 years, he was the manager of global information security at SES, a leading international satellite operator. He is now working at CIRCL in the research and operational fields. He is also a lecturer in information security at Paul-Verlaine University in Metz and the University of Luxembourg. He is also the lead developer of various open source tools including cve-search and member of the MISP core team.

<< [back to schedule](/schedule/)